Hey Lou we're starting an advanced course with how javascript works but I already know how javascript
works.
I write JavaScript every day.
Stop wasting my time Andre.
I know you like to give me a hard time but let me ask you this when you write code on a file do you
know what happens.
How does the browser read this file.
How is javascript executed.
How does no GSA work.
We write code in a text editor.
And somehow this code magically turns into ones and zeros to tell the computer to do something.
In this section and to begin this course I want to build what I think is the most important foundation
of learning any language.
If somebody asks you Hey can you explain how javascript works.
As if I was five.
You're going to be able to answer it by the end of this section knowing something deeply is being able
to understand it so well that you can explain it to anybody even somebody without technical knowledge.
More importantly you will have an understanding of the language at a deeper level than most people in
the industry so that you can write better code let's have a look at what we're going to talk about in
the first part we're going to talk about the JavaScript engine javascript runtime about interpreters
compilers and JIT compilers.
We're going to learn about writing optimized code.
We're going to talk about call Stack's memory heaps and some of the things that we have to be careful
when it comes to stacks and heaps and that is stack overflow and memory leaks.
We're gonna talk a little bit about garbage collection about no J.
Yes and how it fits into this whole javascript ecosystem and it's single threaded model and using what
we learned in this section we're gonna be able to use these fundamentals as we learn higher and higher
level concepts as we move throughout the course.
So hang in there even if you have a good understanding of how javascript works you may learn a thing
or two.
We're also going to have a little bit of coding but most exercises in this section are going to be thought
experiments and a lot more code is gonna come up in future sections.
So hang in there and I hope you are as excited as I am to start the course.
It's gonna be a lot of fun.
Let's get started shall we.
See you in the next one.